---
layout: single
classes: wide
permalink: /catalogue-agile-smells/AS10
title: "AS 10 - Iteration Without an Iteration Review"
excerpt: "AS 10."
last_modified_at: 2021-03-22
toc: false
sidebar:
  nav: "catalogue-agile-smells"
---


### The iteration review is a meeting where the development team presents to the product owner what was accomplished during the previous iteration. 
Typically, there is a software demonstration showing the new features and a discussion of what is being delivered. 
The *Iteration Without an Iteration Review* smell is detected when there is no review associated with a given iteration. 
The presence of this smell may indicate the development team is missing an important opportunity to present the results of the iteration to the product owner.


\\
**Agile Methods**:
Review meetings are explicitly mentioned by three agile methods: Scrum, Crystal methods and ADS. 
Scrum defines *Sprint Review* as a meeting that should be held on the last day of the iteration to the team presents the results (ie the features added to the software) to the stakeholders. The participants assess the new features and may decide for adjustments or even new features that change the direction of the software development.
Similarly, Crystal methods propose a review meeting just after the end of each iteration to the team presents the resulting software. 
The *Learning Loop* principle in ADS also contains a review meeting that should be performed after each cycle. This meeting should be performed in the presence of a customer representative (called customer focus-group).

\\
**Industry Perspective**:
All participants indicated - with different levels - that the agile smell is relevant. No additional comment was given.

\\
**Identification Strategy**:
Two strategies were proposed to verify the presence of a *Review Meeting*. 
The first strategy consists in checking if there is any task associated with the iteration plan that represents the Review meeting. 
The second strategy is to verify if there is any task in the iteration plan that produces an *Iteration Review Minute* artifact.


\\
**Parameters**:
A *Tolerated Number of Consecutive Iterations Without Review* parameter could be used to specify a tolerable number of consecutive iterations without retrospective meetings.
